Hi everyone! My name is Krishanu, and today I’ll
be giving a demo on how to use my group’s tool:
the Spotify Recommendation Visualization.
Our visualization has two linked,
interactive visual encodings.
On the left there is a scatter plot of
a various selection of songs available
on Spotify. The axes of the graph represent
various song attributes. At the beginning,
the axes of the graph are set to loudness on
the y-axis and danceability on the x-axis.
On the right, there is a bar chart displaying the
distribution of available markets of the songs
shown in the scatter plot on the left. The bar
chart shows that the top market is US followed
closely by Canada and Mexico. This means that all
2000 songs in the sample are available in the US.
The user is able to change the axes
of the scatterplot to create different
visualizations. For instance, if the
user wanted to find songs with high
tempo and energy, they could select
those as axes for the scatterplot.
When a user hovers over a
point in the scatterplot,
a tooltip appears showing the user the track
name, album name and release year of the song.
At the same time, the bars of the countries
that specific song is available in,
light up green in the bar
chart encoding on the right.
When a user hovers over a bar in the bar chart,
the number of songs from the total sample of
2000 songs that are available in the country
represented by the bar will appear via a tooltip.
For example,
there are 1920 songs available
in Mexico in the sample.
Finally, the user is able to identify how old
songs are based on the lightness of the
green of the points in the scatterplot.